looking ahead to the 2014 class a lot of
eyes are on jahlil okafor the star
center at Chicago's Whitney Young is the
top player in the country for next year
and just about every major program wats
his commitment I think when you start
talking about what makes Jalil great on
the basketball court as a basketball
player in his first of all just feel to
the basketball game the way he plays the
game and the tremendous skills that he
has has a basketball player I don't
think anyone works as hard to see to us
that's not an ox and the other player at
all I'm able to watch firsthand what
goes into his skills and abilities I
mean he just don't take his talent for
granted he works at work hard but
julio's road to the top hasn't been
without challenges when he was nine
years old his mother passed away due to
complications from bronchitis it was a
lot to handle for a nine-year-old but
Jaleel got through the grief thanks to
the support of his family my mom passed
it was it was a probably the saddest one
of my life it was but my family night
that's my dad's older sister and she's
taking the role of my mom she's like we
got our my auntie mom but she's it does
so much for me it was extremely
difficult but he handled it he handled
it so well I say hi that's probably was
one of them was the most proudest moment
I had as far as the father just watching
how you have her situation later on in
the future even see how you put that
energy into basketball I mean keeping
you equally used as an excuse and just
so many other things but he has never
he's humble he's gracious and any work
hard basketball became not just an
escape but a passion for Jalil his mom
got him involved with the game when he
was seven and shortly after her passing
Jalil had the experience of winning a
national tournament in Orlando what I
remember most about is that after the
tournament was over I saw him just go
sit to the side where the rest of team
was cheering at Haller he just went it
took a moment to go sit down gathers up
and kind of like say thank you because
he felt like someone's watching up
someone was helping
turn of it and from there nor I mean
he's just been focused Julia's father
Chuck grew up in Chicago and the two of
them eventually settled there Chuck
Okafor wanted to find the right school
for his son and Whitney Young was the
perfect fit the real strange thing that
many people don't know is that jalil
father sold out with the young and it
was not about basketball you know when
we when I first had an opportunity have
a conversation with in his conversation
to me was more about academics it wasn't
even about basketball I didn't know who
he was had no idea who this young person
was until his father reached out to the
school I mean that's that that really is
the real adoring fact of widia I'm not
something that my father always preach I
mean he was never to support of hype on
the camera sports when it came to
academics that's what he puts once he
got into the school Jahlil discovered he
was going to be a part of one of the
best basketball programs not just in
Chicago but the country I came up in our
seventh grade I had no idea about the
basketball team here at all i had no
idea how good they were I just knew that
when the end was one of the top schools
in other North for education and that's
what my dad told me so I came up here to
talk to the back of my coaches I knew
that would be a good way to get me into
the school selectmen enrollment school
and it turned out that that year they
also want state so it was just a win-win
we had opportunity to see him play as
for the first time it was just really
kind of like this is absolutely amazing
that a young man at such a very early
age is a skill as he was and nothing has
changed about the amazement of his
abilities from then to now he continues
to amaze you as you see a plan and
clearly myself Jahlil hates to lose he
hates to lose and practice in horse and
anything
he's out there to compete day in and day
out Julio's competitiveness and ever
improving game have given him a chance
to play internationally as he had an
impressive 2012 at the USA under-17 team
he was named MVP of the FIBA world
championships as he led Team USA to a
gold medal it was amazing you got
something I've been always wanting to do
I thought about it every day the second
I thought that I had an opportunity to
president and then just when you're
overseas you just get so close with the
other 11 drives on that team and there's
no closer to coaches and then you know
the competition is really different and
once he made the team he shows was a
moving broader his hailed a little bit
higher and I could see it like instantly
like me he just grew up because I know
how hard it was more I know how hard
those trials work for the u.s. a 10-7 it
helped me put him on a different level
several NBA players have come from the
Chicago area including kevin garnett
Dwyane Wade and top overall picks
Derrick Rose and Anthony Davis if jahlil
okafor continues to improve at the rate
he has he could one day be mentioned
among the all-time greats to a plate in
the Windy City the history of Chicago
basketball is is daunting you've had
players of many decades and many errors
that have done great things in the NBA
but from my standpoint I would say that
Jalil has the arguably an opportunity at
the end of this four years of high
school basketball to be ranked in the
top three four players in our in our
state clearly as a high school
basketball player and potentially by the
time he's done playing basketball in
totality we will have an opportunity to
debate whether or not he's one of the
greatest players to have a play
basketball not only in Chicago will
potentially in the United States of
America